docs/usage.md, before:

# Usage

Run `dotdrop --help` to see all available options.

## Basic usage

The basic use of dotdrop is

* import a file/directory to manage (this will copy the files from the filesystem to your `dotpath`): `dotdrop import <somefile>`
* install the dotfiles (will *copy/link* those from your `dotpath` to the filesystem): `dotdrop install`

Then if you happen to update the file/directory directly on the filesystem (add new file/dir, edit content, etc) you can use the `update` command to mirror back those changes in dotdrop.

For more advanced uses:

* `dotdrop --help` for the cli usage.
* [the example](https://github.com/deadc0de6/dotdrop#getting-started)
* [the howto](howto/howto.md)

## Profile

The default profile used by dotdrop is the *hostname* of the host you are running dotdrop on.

It can be changed:

* using the command line switch `-p --profile=<profile>`
* by defining it in the env variable `DOTDROP_PROFILE`

## Import dotfiles

The `import` command imports dotfiles to be managed by dotdrop.
It copies the dotfile to your `dotpath` and updates the config file with the new entry.

Note that dotdrop will dereference all symlinks when importing a file or directory.

For example to import `~/.xinitrc`
```bash
$ dotdrop import ~/.xinitrc
	-> "/home/user/.xinitrc" imported

1 file(s) imported.
```

You can control how the dotfile key is generated in the config file
with the config entry `longkey` (per default to *false*).

Two formats are available:

* *short format* (default): take the shortest unique path
* *long format*: take the full path

For example `~/.config/awesome/rc.lua` gives

* `f_rc.lua` in the short format
* `f_config_awesome_rc.lua` in the long format

Importing `~/.mutt/colors` and then `~/.vim/colors` will result in

* `d_colors` and `d_vim_colors` in the short format
* `d_mutt_colors` and `d_vim_colors` in the long format

Dotfiles can be imported as a different file with the use
of the command line switch `--as` (effectively selecting the `src` part
of the dotfile in the config). It is however recommended
to use [templating](templating.md) to avoid duplicates and optimize
dotfiles management.
```bash
$ dotdrop import ~/.zshrc --as=~/.zshrc.test
```

For more options, see the usage with `dotdrop --help`

## Install dotfiles

The `install` command installs/deploys dotfiles managed by dotdrop from the `dotpath` to their destinations.
```bash
$ dotdrop install
```

The dotfile will be installed only if it differs from the version already present on its destination.

some available options

* `-t --temp`: install the dotfile(s) to a temporary directory for review (it helps to debug templating issues for example).
  Note that actions are not executed in that mode.
* `-a --force-actions`: force the execution of actions even if the dotfiles are not installed
* `-f --force`: do not ask any confirmation

To ignore specific pattern during installation see [the ignore patterns](config.md#ignore-patterns)

For more options, see the usage with `dotdrop --help`

## Compare dotfiles

The `compare` command compares dotfiles on their destination with the one stored in your `dotpath`.
```bash
$ dotdrop compare
```

The diffing is done by the unix tool `diff` in the backend, one can provide its specific
diff command using the config entry `diff_command`.

To ignore specific pattern, see [the ignore patterns](config.md#ignore-patterns)

It is also possible to install all dotfiles for a specific profile
in a temporary directory in order to manually compare them with
the local version by using `install` and the `-t` switch.

For more options, see the usage with `dotdrop --help`

## List profiles

The `profiles` command lists defined profiles in the config file
```bash
$ dotdrop profiles
```

Dotdrop allows to choose which profile to use
with the `--profile` switch if you use something
else than the default (the hostname).

The default profile can also be changed by defining the
`DOTDROP_PROFILE` environment variable.

## List dotfiles

The `files` command lists the dotfiles declared for a specific profile.
```bash
$ dotdrop files --profile=some-profile
f_xinitrc
	-> dst: /home/user/.xinitrc
	-> src: /home/user/dotdrop/dotfiles/xinitrc
	-> link: nolink
```

By using the `-T --template` switch, only the dotfiles that
are using [templating](templating.md) are listed.

It is also possible to list all files related to each dotfile entries
by invoking the `detail` command, for example:
```bash
$ dotdrop detail
dotfiles details for profile "some-profile":
f_xinitrc (dst: "/home/user/.xinitrc", link: nolink)
	-> /home/user/dotdrop/dotfiles/xinitrc (template:no)
```

This is especially useful when the dotfile entry is a directory
and one wants to have information on the different files it contains
(does a specific file uses templating, etc).

For more options, see the usage with `dotdrop --help`

## Update dotfiles

The `update` commands will updates a dotfile managed by dotdrop by copying the dotfile
from the filesystem to the `dotpath`. Only dotfiles that have differences with the stored version are updated.
A confirmation is requested from the user before any overwrite/update unless the `-f --force` switch is used.

Either provide the path of the file containing the new version of the dotfile or
provide the dotfile key to update (as found in the config file) along with the `-k --key` switch.
When using the `-k --key` switch and no key is provided, all dotfiles for that profile are updated.
```bash
## update by path
$ dotdrop update ~/.vimrc

## update by key with the --key switch
$ dotdrop update --key f_vimrc
```

If not argument is provided, all dotfiles for the selected profile are updated.

To ignore specific pattern,
see [the dedicated page](config.md#ignore-patterns)

There are two cases when updating a dotfile:

### The dotfile doesn't use [templating](templating.md)

The new version of the dotfile is copied to the *dotpath* directory and overwrites
the old version. If git is used to version the dotfiles stored by dotdrop, the git command
`diff` can be used to view the changes.

```bash
$ dotdrop update ~/.vimrc
$ git diff
```

### The dotfile uses [templating](templating.md)

The dotfile must be manually updated, three solutions can be used to identify the
changes to apply to the template:

* Use the `compare` command
```bash
## use compare to identify change(s)
$ dotdrop compare --file=~/.vimrc
```

* Call `update` with the `-P --show-patch` switch that will provide with an ad-hoc solution
  to manually patch the template file using a temporary generated version of the template
  (this isn't a bullet proof solution and might need manual checking)
```bash
## get an ad-hoc solution to manually patch the template
$ dotdrop update --show-patch ~/.vimrc
[WARN] /home/user/dotfiles/vimrc uses template, update manually
[WARN] try patching with: "diff -u /tmp/dotdrop-sbx6hw0r /home/user/.vimrc | patch /home/user/dotfiles/vimrc"
```

* Install the dotfiles to a temporary directory (using the `install` command and the
  `-t` switch) and compare the generated dotfile with the local one.
```bash
## use install to identify change(s)
$ dotdrop install -t -t f_vimrc
Installed to tmp /tmp/dotdrop-6ajz7565
$ diff ~/.vimrc /tmp/dotdrop-6ajz7565/home/user/.vimrc
```

## Remove dotfiles

The command `remove` allows to stop managing a specific dotfile with
dotdrop. It will:

* remove the entry in the config file (under `dotfiles` and `profile`)
* remove the file from the `dotpath`

For more options, see the usage with `dotdrop --help`

## Environment variables

Following environment variables can be used to specify different CLI options.
Note that CLI switches take precedence over environment variables (except for `DOTDROP_FORCE_NODEBUG`)

* `DOTDROP_PROFILE`: `-p --profile`
```bash
export DOTDROP_PROFILE="my-fancy-profile"
```
* `DOTDROP_CONFIG`: `-c --cfg`
```bash
export DOTDROP_CONFIG="/home/user/dotdrop/config.yaml"
```
* `DOTDROP_NOBANNER`: `-b --no-banner`
```bash
export DOTDROP_NOBANNER=
```
* `DOTDROP_DEBUG`: `-V --verbose`
```bash
export DOTDROP_DEBUG=
```
* `DOTDROP_FORCE_NODEBUG`: disable debug outputs even if `-V --verbose` is provided or `DOTDROP_DEBUG` is set
```bash
export DOTDROP_FORCE_NODEBUG=
```
* `DOTDROP_TMPDIR`: defines a temporary directory for dotdrop to use for its operations instead of using a system generated one
```bash
export DOTDROP_TMPDIR="/tmp/dotdrop-tmp"
```

Commit message:

ask before dereferencing symlinks for #184

docs/usage.md, after:

# Usage

Run `dotdrop --help` to see all available options.

## Basic usage

The basic use of dotdrop is

* import a file/directory to manage (this will copy the files from the filesystem to your `dotpath`): `dotdrop import <somefile>`
* install the dotfiles (will *copy/link* those from your `dotpath` to the filesystem): `dotdrop install`

Then if you happen to update the file/directory directly on the filesystem (add new file/dir, edit content, etc) you can use the `update` command to mirror back those changes in dotdrop.

For more advanced uses:

* `dotdrop --help` for the cli usage.
* [the example](https://github.com/deadc0de6/dotdrop#getting-started)
* [the howto](howto/howto.md)

## Profile

The default profile used by dotdrop is the *hostname* of the host you are running dotdrop on.

It can be changed:

* using the command line switch `-p --profile=<profile>`
* by defining it in the env variable `DOTDROP_PROFILE`

## Import dotfiles

The `import` command imports dotfiles to be managed by dotdrop.
It copies the dotfile to your `dotpath` and updates the config file with the new entry.

Dotdrop will ask for dereferencing symlinks on import unless `-f --force` is used.

For example to import `~/.xinitrc`
```bash
$ dotdrop import ~/.xinitrc
	-> "/home/user/.xinitrc" imported

1 file(s) imported.
```

You can control how the dotfile key is generated in the config file
with the config entry `longkey` (per default to *false*).

Two formats are available:

* *short format* (default): take the shortest unique path
* *long format*: take the full path

For example `~/.config/awesome/rc.lua` gives

* `f_rc.lua` in the short format
* `f_config_awesome_rc.lua` in the long format

Importing `~/.mutt/colors` and then `~/.vim/colors` will result in

* `d_colors` and `d_vim_colors` in the short format
* `d_mutt_colors` and `d_vim_colors` in the long format

Dotfiles can be imported as a different file with the use
of the command line switch `--as` (effectively selecting the `src` part
of the dotfile in the config). It is however recommended
to use [templating](templating.md) to avoid duplicates and optimize
dotfiles management.
```bash
$ dotdrop import ~/.zshrc --as=~/.zshrc.test
```

For more options, see the usage with `dotdrop --help`

## Install dotfiles

The `install` command installs/deploys dotfiles managed by dotdrop from the `dotpath` to their destinations.
```bash
$ dotdrop install
```

The dotfile will be installed only if it differs from the version already present on its destination.

some available options

* `-t --temp`: install the dotfile(s) to a temporary directory for review (it helps to debug templating issues for example).
  Note that actions are not executed in that mode.
* `-a --force-actions`: force the execution of actions even if the dotfiles are not installed
* `-f --force`: do not ask any confirmation

To ignore specific pattern during installation see [the ignore patterns](config.md#ignore-patterns)

For more options, see the usage with `dotdrop --help`

## Compare dotfiles

The `compare` command compares dotfiles on their destination with the one stored in your `dotpath`.
```bash
$ dotdrop compare
```

The diffing is done by the unix tool `diff` in the backend, one can provide its specific
diff command using the config entry `diff_command`.

To ignore specific pattern, see [the ignore patterns](config.md#ignore-patterns)

It is also possible to install all dotfiles for a specific profile
in a temporary directory in order to manually compare them with
the local version by using `install` and the `-t` switch.

For more options, see the usage with `dotdrop --help`

## List profiles

The `profiles` command lists defined profiles in the config file
```bash
$ dotdrop profiles
```

Dotdrop allows to choose which profile to use
with the `--profile` switch if you use something
else than the default (the hostname).

The default profile can also be changed by defining the
`DOTDROP_PROFILE` environment variable.

## List dotfiles

The `files` command lists the dotfiles declared for a specific profile.
```bash
$ dotdrop files --profile=some-profile
f_xinitrc
	-> dst: /home/user/.xinitrc
	-> src: /home/user/dotdrop/dotfiles/xinitrc
	-> link: nolink
```

By using the `-T --template` switch, only the dotfiles that
are using [templating](templating.md) are listed.

It is also possible to list all files related to each dotfile entries
by invoking the `detail` command, for example:
```bash
$ dotdrop detail
dotfiles details for profile "some-profile":
f_xinitrc (dst: "/home/user/.xinitrc", link: nolink)
	-> /home/user/dotdrop/dotfiles/xinitrc (template:no)
```

This is especially useful when the dotfile entry is a directory
and one wants to have information on the different files it contains
(does a specific file uses templating, etc).

For more options, see the usage with `dotdrop --help`

## Update dotfiles

The `update` commands will updates a dotfile managed by dotdrop by copying the dotfile
from the filesystem to the `dotpath`. Only dotfiles that have differences with the stored version are updated.
A confirmation is requested from the user before any overwrite/update unless the `-f --force` switch is used.

Either provide the path of the file containing the new version of the dotfile or
provide the dotfile key to update (as found in the config file) along with the `-k --key` switch.
When using the `-k --key` switch and no key is provided, all dotfiles for that profile are updated.
```bash
## update by path
$ dotdrop update ~/.vimrc

## update by key with the --key switch
$ dotdrop update --key f_vimrc
```

If not argument is provided, all dotfiles for the selected profile are updated.

To ignore specific pattern,
see [the dedicated page](config.md#ignore-patterns)

There are two cases when updating a dotfile:

### The dotfile doesn't use [templating](templating.md)

The new version of the dotfile is copied to the *dotpath* directory and overwrites
the old version. If git is used to version the dotfiles stored by dotdrop, the git command
`diff` can be used to view the changes.

```bash
$ dotdrop update ~/.vimrc
$ git diff
```

### The dotfile uses [templating](templating.md)

The dotfile must be manually updated, three solutions can be used to identify the
changes to apply to the template:

* Use the `compare` command
```bash
## use compare to identify change(s)
$ dotdrop compare --file=~/.vimrc
```

* Call `update` with the `-P --show-patch` switch that will provide with an ad-hoc solution
  to manually patch the template file using a temporary generated version of the template
  (this isn't a bullet proof solution and might need manual checking)
```bash
## get an ad-hoc solution to manually patch the template
$ dotdrop update --show-patch ~/.vimrc
[WARN] /home/user/dotfiles/vimrc uses template, update manually
[WARN] try patching with: "diff -u /tmp/dotdrop-sbx6hw0r /home/user/.vimrc | patch /home/user/dotfiles/vimrc"
```

* Install the dotfiles to a temporary directory (using the `install` command and the
  `-t` switch) and compare the generated dotfile with the local one.
```bash
## use install to identify change(s)
$ dotdrop install -t -t f_vimrc
Installed to tmp /tmp/dotdrop-6ajz7565
$ diff ~/.vimrc /tmp/dotdrop-6ajz7565/home/user/.vimrc
```

## Remove dotfiles

The command `remove` allows to stop managing a specific dotfile with
dotdrop. It will:

* remove the entry in the config file (under `dotfiles` and `profile`)
* remove the file from the `dotpath`

For more options, see the usage with `dotdrop --help`

## Environment variables

Following environment variables can be used to specify different CLI options.
Note that CLI switches take precedence over environment variables (except for `DOTDROP_FORCE_NODEBUG`)

* `DOTDROP_PROFILE`: `-p --profile`
```bash
export DOTDROP_PROFILE="my-fancy-profile"
```
* `DOTDROP_CONFIG`: `-c --cfg`
```bash
export DOTDROP_CONFIG="/home/user/dotdrop/config.yaml"
```
* `DOTDROP_NOBANNER`: `-b --no-banner`
```bash
export DOTDROP_NOBANNER=
```
* `DOTDROP_DEBUG`: `-V --verbose`
```bash
export DOTDROP_DEBUG=
```
* `DOTDROP_FORCE_NODEBUG`: disable debug outputs even if `-V --verbose` is provided or `DOTDROP_DEBUG` is set
```bash
export DOTDROP_FORCE_NODEBUG=
```
* `DOTDROP_TMPDIR`: defines a temporary directory for dotdrop to use for its operations instead of using a system generated one
```bash
export DOTDROP_TMPDIR="/tmp/dotdrop-tmp"
```
